#SPEECH STRUCTURE

INTRODUCTION #An effective introduction:
Captures the audience’s attention
Provides an opportunity for the speaker to introduce him- or herself and
Addresses the following question: “Why this topic for this audience?”
#The body of the speech: The body of a speech acts as the bridge for the topic between speaker and audience. It’s the area of the presentation where the speaker details relevant information, useful examples, and engaging support for the topic. The body of the speech can be organized according to the content. The order in which topics are presented can determined by nature of the content. For example, a speech about the use teeth whitening products lends itself to a pro-con organization because it is logical to present the benefits and harms (pros and cons) of using this product. A presentation about three-piece business suits is topical in that each main point is a separate entity, all of which connect by way of the topic. A historical speech on Martin Luther King Jr.’s life would be chronological because different moments of time represent his life. Another organizational pattern is spatial. This is used when information is organized by way of “space”. For example, explaining to your audience the layout of the school library.

#Informative speech Informative speaking is similar to teaching your audience. An informative speech is a presentation designed to (a) create, (b) further, or (c) alter the audience’s factual beliefs about a topic. In other words, informative presentations have three primary goals.

The first goal of informative speeches is to communicate information that is new knowledge for audience members. For example, if an instructor asks you to prepare an oral presentation on a chapter from your textbook, your goal is to develop a format and delivery approach that is best suited to help the class learn that material.

Second, informative presentations further existing knowledge. Take, for example, Eva, who is giving a presentation that is part of a week-long university program on raising awareness about violence against women on college campuses. She understands that her student audience has been given information for the past week, and she seeks to add to that information.

Third, informative speeches can update outdated information or change listeners’ factual understanding of a topic. For instance, Dr. Smyth, the president of a large university, gave a briefing to his staff to let them know that rumors about his pending resignation were false.

#Informative speech types Instructional presentation: Instructional presentations in business and civic settings typically last 30 to 60 minutes and allow time for interaction and other audience engagement. These presentations typically include sensory aids such as digital slides, video, or images. Your instructor may ask you to prepare an instructional presentation that lasts three to 10 minutes as a way of getting started.

Brief report: As suggested by its name, a brief report is shorter than an instructional presentation (and other types of informative speeches). A brief report represents a highly structured overview of very specific information for the intended audience. An effective briefing is to the point and features only necessary facts that a particular audience needs at that point in time. Brief reports are very common in the workplace. They are often prepared to give people who are not directly involved with your daily tasks, but who have some understanding of or interest in what you do, some useful information in a short period of time. Because brief reports are often updates on technical or complex facts and figures, they are well complemented by one or more sensory aids, such as a graph or chart.

Demonstration: A demonstration gives how-to advice to an audience relative to a particular topic or activity, and it involves some physical depiction of the subject. Demonstrations are appropriate when watching or listening to relevant information and may heighten audience members’ knowledge of the subject.

Training: Training is designed to instruct participants, typically in a work-related setting, how to complete a task accurately. Whereas instruction and briefings are focused on building knowledge, training is focused on building skills. How does training differ from demonstrating? Although a training session may involve demonstration of the particular skills being trained, it provides more detail than a simple demonstration.

#Persuasive presentation In addition to understanding the goals of a persuasive presentation, understanding the fundamental persuasive claim that your speech follows from will help you to identify and effectively construct the particular type of persuasive presentation you wish to make. Wrench, Goding, et al. (2011) claim that there are four basic persuasive claims that an individual can make, and we can productively extend these claims as representing four unique types of persuasive presentations:

Definitional Definitional Speeches A definitional speech argues about the basic identification or classification of a particular thing. In essence, you are arguing that X is or is not Y because of particular evidence, reasons, or rules. Crucially, in a speech like this, you are arguing about technical, scientific, or legal status of particular things/ideas.

Factual Factual Speeches A factual speech argues for the truth or falsity of a given assertion. However, persuasive speeches based on claims of fact exist on a spectrum moving from easily supported or verifiable to highly uncertain with little reasoned evidence for support. Claims of fact work differently in a persuasive speech than in an informative one. You should think of yourself as defending your own assertion with more factual support and reasoned argument than your audience, as your goal is to persuade them that you have the most factual position.

Policy Policy Speeches A policy speech describes a certain social or political problem and then seeks to lay out the specifics of a solution to that problem. The ease with which we can generate policy claims speaks to how common a policy persuasive speech is. For example:

The U.S. should stop its reliance on fossil fuels. Police forces around the world should be demilitarized in their equipment and tactics. Online bullying should be treated as a hate crime. All American citizens should be required to have a background check and undergo training before they can own a firearm. The U.S. should invest less in its presence in foreign populations around the world and more in the well-being of its own impoverished and starving population.

Value Value Speeches A value speech argues the virtue, accuracy, and soundness of a particular judgment. This judgment will always be based on an underlying principle or value, such as what is right, just, beautiful, peaceful, generous, equitable, etc. When making this kind of speech, you need to be able to communicate the value you begin with by effectively describing the context surrounding your claim.

When evaluating the audience of your persuasive speech, you’ll find that they will likely fall into one of three categories:

An audience that agrees with your position. Persuasive messages that reinforce a receiver’s present position on an issue are the easiest type to develop. Agreeable audiences are the friendliest; they have already made the decision to support you and your message, so your job is to reinforce and perhaps strengthen that support. For one example, a minister’s sermon to her congregation is designed to reinforce the religious beliefs and lifestyle that audience members have already adopted. For another, a university president’s presentation to a group of donors is intended to intensify their desire to give, and to give even more than they already do. How can you do this, too?
a. Establish common ground. Remind the audience that you share their attitudes and beliefs about the topic and are already on the same page.

b. Provide your audience with motivation and encouragement to strengthen their agreement. Narratives, direct or indirect personal examples, and emotional appeals work well.

c. Be straightforward. Tell the audience exactly what you want or need. Because they are already supportive, they will appreciate this approach and often comply.

An audience that disagrees with your position. Because of the psychological reactance phenomenon, these are the most challenging audiences to persuade. When you attempt to change someone’s position on an issue, you design a message that encourages them to shift their current attitudes, beliefs, or behaviors. Change is very difficult to achieve among audience members who have already formed an opinion on an issue, believe something very strongly, or are accustomed to behaving in a certain way. As a result, your message could create a boomerang effect of resistance, which would cause your audience to not only reject your recommendations, but also become even more entrenched in their current beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors.
Here are some suggestions for any speaker preparing to face a disagreeable audience:

a. Do not expect a radical change all at once. Research suggests that speakers ask for small amounts of change when they have determined that the audience’s position is far from the one they are advocating (Sherif & Hovland, 1961).

b. Establish some common ground. Acknowledge places where you agree, and communicate respect for the audience’s perspective.

c. Be sure to give resistant audiences plenty of credible evidence that there are problems with the status quo (the way things are currently). Sometimes the audience is not even aware that the way they currently do something is problematic. If you can arouse among your audience a sense that change is clearly needed, you will grab their attention and direct it to your proposal for change.

d. Use a lot of credible evidence to support not only the reasons for a change, but also the reasons for your proposal. Be sure you know before giving your speech what kinds of evidence your audience will appreciate and evaluate as credible.

An audience that is neutral or ambivalent. When your audience is uninformed about the issue, is confused about it, or does not see how taking action either way will benefit them, your task is to shape the listeners’ attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors. Your message needs to be informative to some extent, but it also needs to advocate a position on a particular issue when audience members have no previous stance. For example, Olivia’s persuasive speech on home shopping TV channels was intended to shape her classmates’ responses to those TV channels because her audience analysis revealed that no one had any direct experience with those TV channels. Therefore, her task was to inform the audience about home shopping TV channels and be an advocate for their convenience and the quality and value of their products. Although the “blank slate” audience is pretty rare, it should be an audience that is easy to influence. With neutral or undecided audiences, be sure to do the following:
a.Establish why they should decide. Make the issue relevant to them.

b.Explain your position and why you have adopted it. Provide evidence that your position is a credible, useful, and effective one (e.g., include facts, testimonials, news stories, and so forth), but avoid overwhelming the audience with too much data.

c.Establish common ground and similarity with your audience. Suggest to the audience that what works for you might work for them too, and encourage them to adopt the position that you are advocating.

In all situations where your success rests on your ability to influence your audience to adapt how they feel, think, or act about something, one of the most important things you can do is to learn where the audience stands on the issue prior to your presentation. You can then build a case that meets their needs, overcomes their objections, and prevents psychological reactance and resistance.

Monroe’s Motivated Sequence Step 1: Capture the Audience’s Attention The opening of a persuasive presentation is similar to that of an informative presentation in that it is important to grab your audience’s attention. Pique your listeners’ curiosity about what you plan to say. However, do not provide a preview to your proposal or the rest of the presentation. You want your listeners to become engaged with your message without the effects of psychological reactance. Make no mention of whatever it is that you are advocating. Stories, surprising facts and statistics, quotes, and humor all work well to grab your listeners’ attention in the persuasive format, just as they do in informative speeches.

Many persuasive speakers begin by telling a story. The story evokes emotion and describes a scenario for the audience to consider. A good persuasive speech introduction leaves audiences wanting to know what the speaker has to say next. By presenting a story with many variables, the audience is engaged without being confronted with the persuasive argument just yet. Therefore, the audience is likely actively engaged and ready to listen. When using a story, the key is to create a compelling story that the audience can relate to; a story that has various elements of personal illustrations so the audience can relate to and connect with the presentation. Speakers can enhance the attention-getting function of an introduction by using humor, taking the time to develop key personal elements, and/or including more vivid imagery.

Blood donation example: For the attention step, you could present a scary story of a student who was in a car accident and needed a blood transfusion. The student didn't get the transfusion because of blood shortage and consequently died. Some other options could be to show a video of a heartfelt personal testimony of someone who lost a loved-one because of a blood bank shortage.

Step 2: Identify Problems or Unfulfilled Needs This step is the most important one in Monroe’s Motivated Sequence and the step where speakers should spend most of their time. Although you may believe that your proposed solution to the problem is the most important part of your message, you must understand that unless you establish a strong, urgent, and relevant problem (or set of problems), audiences will shut down to the rest of your message. If, as a listener, you are not convinced that a realistic and relevant threat or problem exists, why would you spend time concerning yourself with a solution or with altering your attitudes, beliefs, or behaviors?

Sometimes, if your audience does not have easily identifiable needs related to your topic, you might have to get creative and develop those needs for them.

In Step 2 of your persuasive presentation, you need to do the following:

State the need or problem very clearly. Make it understandable to your audience.

Provide evidence of the problem. The support you include should be relevant to your audience and emphasize the reality of the problem. In other words, your evidence should either convince your audience that the problem is already in their lives or that it poses a threat, making the listener realize, “This could happen to me.”

Create among your listeners a sense of tension or urgency, and a need to know what they can do to relieve the problems. This will make your listeners receptive to your plan or solution when you reveal it because they want a way to relieve the anxiety that developed as they listened to the details of the problem.

Step 3: Propose a Solution (or plan) That Satisfies the Problem(s) (or need) Once you have firmly established a problem state or need, it is finally time to reveal your proposed solution and explain how that solution works. Be very clear in explaining how the attitude, belief, and/or behavior you are recommending to your audience will address the needs and problems you discussed in Step 2. At this point, you should also anticipate and inoculate against your audience’s objections and counter-arguments. For example, an audience might complain that your solution is too expensive, too time-consuming, too difficult, inaccessible to them, and so forth. Make an effort to predict what objections your audience might have, and address (inoculate against) them before they are raised. We discuss this important influence strategy in greater detail later in this module.

An effective and credible speaker will offer a variety of solutions and/or describe how one possible solution could address a variety of needs. Providing extensive evidence of both the problem (or need) and the proposed solution(s) is key. Some ways to present this information could be to explain the solution (or plan) in detail that the audience can follow. Additionally, you could succinctly restate each unfilled need (or problem) and clearly illustrate how the implementation of the proposed solution(s) meet each one.

Finally, it is important for speakers to anticipate and address possible audience objections, and cite evidence that documents how the advocated change is realistic. Anticipating possible audience objections will help a speaker prepare information to address those objectives and further elicit support from the audience.

Blood donation example: Perhaps you suggest that creating blood donation clubs or groups can help address the shortage. You can present evidence that these blood donation clubs can help guarantee a steady and consistent amount of blood coming into a blood bank.

Can you think of any potential reasons why an audience might resist this plan?

Step 4: Help the Audience Visualize What Satisfaction Will Mean for Them After proposing an idea, you need to focus on heightening your listeners’ motivation to adopt it. Using vivid, concrete, and personal language, helps audience members develop a picture of how their lives will change in positive ways if they adopt your idea. Paint a very explicit verbal picture, and, if appropriate, accompany it with an actual image that represents the change you are advocating.

Another strategy that works for some persuasive issues is to describe, too, what will happen if your listeners do not make the recommended change. This strategy represents a type of fear appeal, which we will discuss later in this unit. If you decide to create this negative imagery for your audience, Professor Monroe’s work suggests that it should be accompanied by the positive visualization of how change can improve the present state of affairs. It is time to drive the point home for your listeners so that they no longer even see a choice and are convinced that the advocated change is the right decision for them. Author and educator Will Tuttle (2013, para. 7 and para. 8) has advocated the adoption of plant-based diets and has eloquently helped his audience visualize a world of veganism. Notice how he used language in the following persuasive message to paint a picture for his audience and to illustrate for them what life (and the world) would be like if they adopted his recommendation:

Step 5: Give Your Audience an Action Plan You have led your audience this far. You have convinced them that a problem (or need) exists with the status quo, and you have offered them a proposal for fixing that problem. Do not leave them hanging! You need to conclude your presentation by providing your audience with specific action steps they can take to carry out the change you have just recommended. Keep these action steps brief, easy to carry out, and to the point. If appropriate, offer the audience a visual that summarizes the action plan, or provide them with a take-away.

Successful speakers give a strong call to action; encourage the audience to take action, exercise their influence. Action steps should be short, easy to remember, and easy to implement.

Blood donation example: Urge the audience to fill out a blood donation card. Encourage them to create a blood donation club on their campus. Convince them to spread the word to their friends and family; perhaps even setting up a monthly donation day where friends and/or family get together, have lunch and donate blood. The key is to make the action plan concrete and “do-able” for the audience you are presenting to.

In conclusion, Monroe’s Motivated Sequence is an effective format for organizing persuasive messages. Its success relies on you, the speaker, placing greater emphasis on the audience’s needs and/or problems (even those they might not be aware of) than on your recommended action (as brilliant as it might be). Competent speakers use Monroe’s Motivated Sequence format to advocate all kinds of personal action, from purchasing a Snuggie to adopting important behaviors such as recycling, exercise, animal rescue, voting, and land conservation. Have you selected your persuasive speech topic yet?

Preparation I intend to express confidence to my audience while at the same time speaking in a comfortable, conversational manner. I will make use of gestures and body language while avoiding body language that could be interpreted as nervous or disingenuous. I will dress appropriately for the situation, speak with energy and volume while varying my pitch and rate of speech to create dynamism in my speech. I will practice redundancy in my speech so that the audience can recognize and remember the important ideas and points I have presented. Finally, the most important key to my success is my ongoing understanding that my audience is most important. My attention to their comfort, interest, and perspective will give me the opportunity to give a persuasive presentation.

Some of the best presentation topics and ideas flow from your own experience. In his “Last Lecture,” the late Carnegie Mellon University professor Randy Pausch said that “experience is the most valuable thing you have to offer.” Your life as a student, hobbies and interests, employment, family life, opinions, and relationships offer you a great deal of firsthand knowledge and experience that will serve you well in speaking confidently as well as connecting to your audience with emotional appeals (pathos). However, to be a competent speaker, you must become adept at incorporating expert sources into your presentations as a way of bolstering your own credibility (by demonstrating that you have a broad base of knowledge on the topic beyond your own experience) and supporting your points with facts, data, experts’ claims, and
